www/docs/customization/checksum.md, before:

---
title: Checksum
---

GoReleaser generates a `project_1.0.0_checksums.txt` file and uploads it with the
release, so your users can validate if the downloaded files are correct.

The `checksum` section allows customizations of the filename:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
checksum:
  # You can change the name of the checksums file.
  # Default is `{{ .ProjectName }}_{{ .Version }}_checksums.txt`.
  name_template: "{{ .ProjectName }}_checksums.txt"

  # Algorithm to be used.
  # Accepted options are sha256, sha512, sha1, crc32, md5, sha224 and sha384.
  # Default is sha256.
  algorithm: sha256

  # IDs of artifacts to include in the checksums file.
  # If left empty, all published binaries, archives, linux packages and source archives
  # are included in the checksums file.
  # Default is an empty list.
  ids: 
    - foo
    - bar

  # Disable the generation/upload of the checksum file.
  # Default is false.
  disable: true
```

!!! tip
    Learn more about the [name template engine](/customization/templates/).

Commit message:

feat: add support for checksum generation for extra files (#2406)
Co-authored-by: Carlos Alexandro Becker <caarlos0@users.noreply.github.com>

www/docs/customization/checksum.md, after:

---
title: Checksum
---

GoReleaser generates a `project_1.0.0_checksums.txt` file and uploads it with the
release, so your users can validate if the downloaded files are correct.

The `checksum` section allows customizations of the filename:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
checksum:
  # You can change the name of the checksums file.
  # Default is `{{ .ProjectName }}_{{ .Version }}_checksums.txt`.
  name_template: "{{ .ProjectName }}_checksums.txt"

  # Algorithm to be used.
  # Accepted options are sha256, sha512, sha1, crc32, md5, sha224 and sha384.
  # Default is sha256.
  algorithm: sha256

  # IDs of artifacts to include in the checksums file.
  # If left empty, all published binaries, archives, linux packages and source archives
  # are included in the checksums file.
  # Default is an empty list.
  ids: 
    - foo
    - bar

  # Disable the generation/upload of the checksum file.
  # Default is false.
  disable: true

  # You can add extra pre-existing files to the checksums file.
  # The filename on the checksums file will be the last part of the path (base). If
  # another file with the same name exists, the latest one found will be used.
  # Defaults to empty.
  extra_files:
    - glob: ./path/to/file.txt
    - glob: ./glob/**/to/**/file/**/*
    - glob: ./glob/foo/to/bar/file/foobar/override_from_previous
```

!!! tip
    Learn more about the [name template engine](/customization/templates/).
