www/docs/customization/homebrew.md, before:

---
title: Homebrew
---

After releasing to GitHub or GitLab, GoReleaser can generate and publish
a _homebrew-tap_ recipe into a repository that you have access to.

The `brews` section specifies how the formula should be created.
You can check the
[Homebrew documentation](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/How-to-Create-and-Maintain-a-Tap.md)
and the
[formula cookbook](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/Formula-Cookbook.md)
for more details.

!!! warning
    If you have multiple 32-bit arm versions in each `build` section, and
    you do not specify any `ids` in the brew section, it will default to all
    artifacts and GoReleaser will fail.

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
brews:
  -
    # Name template of the recipe
    # Default to project name
    name: myproject

    # IDs of the archives to use.
    # Defaults to all.
    ids:
    - foo
    - bar

    # GOARM to specify which 32-bit arm version to use if there are multiple versions
    # from the build section. Brew formulas support atm only one 32-bit version.
    # Default is 6 for all artifacts or each id if there a multiple versions.
    goarm: 6

    # NOTE: make sure the url_template, the token and given repo (github or gitlab) owner and name are from the
    # same kind. We will probably unify this in the next major version like it is done with scoop.

    # GitHub/GitLab repository to push the formula to
    # Gitea is not supported yet, but the support coming
    tap:
      owner: repo-owner
      name: homebrew-tap
      # Optionally a token can be provided, if it differs from the token provided to GoReleaser
      token: "{{ .Env.HOMEBREW_TAP_GITHUB_TOKEN }}"

    # Template for the url which is determined by the given Token (github or gitlab)
    # Default for github is "https://github.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/releases/download/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    # Default for gitlab is "https://gitlab.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/uploads/{{ .ArtifactUploadHash }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    url_template: "http://github.mycompany.com/foo/bar/releases/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"

    # Allows you to set a custom download strategy. Note that you'll need
    # to implement the strategy and add it to your tap repository.
    # Example: https://docs.brew.sh/Formula-Cookbook#specifying-the-download-strategy-explicitly
    # Default is empty.
    download_strategy: CurlDownloadStrategy.

    # Allows you to add a custom require_relative at the top of the formula template
    # Default is empty
    custom_require: custom_download_strategy

    # Git author used to commit to the repository.
    # Defaults are shown.
    commit_author:
      name: goreleaserbot
      email: goreleaser@carlosbecker.com

    # Folder inside the repository to put the formula.
    # Default is the root folder.
    folder: Formula

    # Caveats for the user of your binary.
    # Default is empty.
    caveats: "How to use this binary"

    # Your app's homepage.
    # Default is empty.
    homepage: "https://example.com/"

    # Your app's description.
    # Default is empty.
    description: "Software to create fast and easy drum rolls."

    # Setting this will prevent goreleaser to actually try to commit the updated
    # formula - instead, the formula file will be stored on the dist folder only,
    # leaving the responsibility of publishing it to the user.
    # If set to auto, the release will not be uploaded to the homebrew tap
    # in case there is an indicator for prerelease in the tag e.g. v1.0.0-rc1
    # Default is false.
    skip_upload: true

    # Custom block for brew.
    # Can be used to specify alternate downloads for devel or head releases.
    # Default is empty.
    custom_block: |
      head "https://github.com/some/package.git"
      ...

    # Packages your package depends on.
    dependencies:
      - name: git
      - name: zsh
        type: optional

    # Packages that conflict with your package.
    conflicts:
      - svn
      - bash

    # Specify for packages that run as a service.
    # Default is empty.
    plist: |
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      ...

    # So you can `brew test` your formula.
    # Default is empty.
    test: |
      system "#{bin}/program --version"
      ...

    # Custom install script for brew.
    # Default is 'bin.install "program"'.
    install: |
      bin.install "program"
      ...
```

!!! tip
    Learn more about the [name template engine](/customization/templates/).

By defining the `brew` section, GoReleaser will take care of publishing the
Homebrew tap.
Assuming that the current tag is `v1.2.3`, the above configuration will generate a
`program.rb` formula in the `Formula` folder of `user/homebrew-tap` repository:

```rb
class Program < Formula
  desc "How to use this binary"
  homepage "https://github.com/user/repo"
  version "v1.2.3"

  if os.Mac?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_macOs_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "9ee30fc358fae8d248a2d7538957089885da321dca3f09e3296fe2058e7fff74"
  end
  if OS.linux? && Hardware::CPU.intel?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "b41bebd25fd7bb1a67dc2cd5ee12c9f67073094567fdf7b3871f05fd74a45fdd"
  end
  if OS.linux? && Hardware::CPU.arm? && !Hardware::CPU.is_64_bit?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_armv7.zip"
    sha256 "78f31239430eaaec01df783e2a3443753a8126c325292ed8ddb1658ddd2b401d"
  end
  if OS.linux? && Hardware::CPU.arm? && Hardware::CPU.is_64_bit?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_arm64.zip"
    sha256 "97cadca3c3c3f36388a4a601acf878dd356d6275a976bee516798b72bfdbeecf"
  end

  depends_on "git"
  depends_on "zsh" => :optional

  def install
    bin.install "program"
  end
end
```

!!! info
    Note that GoReleaser does not generate a valid homebrew-core formula.
    The generated formulas are meant to be published as
    [homebrew taps](https://docs.brew.sh/Taps.html), and in their current
    form will not be accepted in any of the official homebrew repositories.

## Head Formulas

GoReleaser does not generate `head` formulas for you, as it may be very different
from one software to another.

Our suggestion is to create a `my-app-head.rb` file on your tap following
[homebrew's documentation](https://docs.brew.sh/Formula-Cookbook#unstable-versions-head).

Commit message:

feat: make generated brew formulas `brew audit` compatible (#1908) (#1911)
* feat: add license as first class config key to homebrew (#1908)

* feat: remove trailing whitespace from generated brew formula (#1908)

www/docs/customization/homebrew.md, after:

---
title: Homebrew
---

After releasing to GitHub or GitLab, GoReleaser can generate and publish
a _homebrew-tap_ recipe into a repository that you have access to.

The `brews` section specifies how the formula should be created.
You can check the
[Homebrew documentation](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/How-to-Create-and-Maintain-a-Tap.md)
and the
[formula cookbook](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/Formula-Cookbook.md)
for more details.

!!! warning
    If you have multiple 32-bit arm versions in each `build` section, and
    you do not specify any `ids` in the brew section, it will default to all
    artifacts and GoReleaser will fail.

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
brews:
  -
    # Name template of the recipe
    # Default to project name
    name: myproject

    # IDs of the archives to use.
    # Defaults to all.
    ids:
    - foo
    - bar

    # GOARM to specify which 32-bit arm version to use if there are multiple versions
    # from the build section. Brew formulas support atm only one 32-bit version.
    # Default is 6 for all artifacts or each id if there a multiple versions.
    goarm: 6

    # NOTE: make sure the url_template, the token and given repo (github or gitlab) owner and name are from the
    # same kind. We will probably unify this in the next major version like it is done with scoop.

    # GitHub/GitLab repository to push the formula to
    # Gitea is not supported yet, but the support coming
    tap:
      owner: repo-owner
      name: homebrew-tap
      # Optionally a token can be provided, if it differs from the token provided to GoReleaser
      token: "{{ .Env.HOMEBREW_TAP_GITHUB_TOKEN }}"

    # Template for the url which is determined by the given Token (github or gitlab)
    # Default for github is "https://github.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/releases/download/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    # Default for gitlab is "https://gitlab.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/uploads/{{ .ArtifactUploadHash }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    url_template: "http://github.mycompany.com/foo/bar/releases/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"

    # Allows you to set a custom download strategy. Note that you'll need
    # to implement the strategy and add it to your tap repository.
    # Example: https://docs.brew.sh/Formula-Cookbook#specifying-the-download-strategy-explicitly
    # Default is empty.
    download_strategy: CurlDownloadStrategy.

    # Allows you to add a custom require_relative at the top of the formula template
    # Default is empty
    custom_require: custom_download_strategy

    # Git author used to commit to the repository.
    # Defaults are shown.
    commit_author:
      name: goreleaserbot
      email: goreleaser@carlosbecker.com

    # Folder inside the repository to put the formula.
    # Default is the root folder.
    folder: Formula

    # Caveats for the user of your binary.
    # Default is empty.
    caveats: "How to use this binary"

    # Your app's homepage.
    # Default is empty.
    homepage: "https://example.com/"

    # Your app's description.
    # Default is empty.
    description: "Software to create fast and easy drum rolls."

    # SPDX identifier of your app's license.
    # Default is empty.
    license: "MIT"

    # Setting this will prevent goreleaser to actually try to commit the updated
    # formula - instead, the formula file will be stored on the dist folder only,
    # leaving the responsibility of publishing it to the user.
    # If set to auto, the release will not be uploaded to the homebrew tap
    # in case there is an indicator for prerelease in the tag e.g. v1.0.0-rc1
    # Default is false.
    skip_upload: true

    # Custom block for brew.
    # Can be used to specify alternate downloads for devel or head releases.
    # Default is empty.
    custom_block: |
      head "https://github.com/some/package.git"
      ...

    # Packages your package depends on.
    dependencies:
      - name: git
      - name: zsh
        type: optional

    # Packages that conflict with your package.
    conflicts:
      - svn
      - bash

    # Specify for packages that run as a service.
    # Default is empty.
    plist: |
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      ...

    # So you can `brew test` your formula.
    # Default is empty.
    test: |
      system "#{bin}/program --version"
      ...

    # Custom install script for brew.
    # Default is 'bin.install "program"'.
    install: |
      bin.install "program"
      ...
```

!!! tip
    Learn more about the [name template engine](/customization/templates/).

By defining the `brew` section, GoReleaser will take care of publishing the
Homebrew tap.
Assuming that the current tag is `v1.2.3`, the above configuration will generate a
`program.rb` formula in the `Formula` folder of `user/homebrew-tap` repository:

```rb
class Program < Formula
  desc "How to use this binary"
  homepage "https://github.com/user/repo"
  version "v1.2.3"

  if os.Mac?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_macOs_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "9ee30fc358fae8d248a2d7538957089885da321dca3f09e3296fe2058e7fff74"
  end
  if OS.linux? && Hardware::CPU.intel?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "b41bebd25fd7bb1a67dc2cd5ee12c9f67073094567fdf7b3871f05fd74a45fdd"
  end
  if OS.linux? && Hardware::CPU.arm? && !Hardware::CPU.is_64_bit?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_armv7.zip"
    sha256 "78f31239430eaaec01df783e2a3443753a8126c325292ed8ddb1658ddd2b401d"
  end
  if OS.linux? && Hardware::CPU.arm? && Hardware::CPU.is_64_bit?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_arm64.zip"
    sha256 "97cadca3c3c3f36388a4a601acf878dd356d6275a976bee516798b72bfdbeecf"
  end

  depends_on "git"
  depends_on "zsh" => :optional

  def install
    bin.install "program"
  end
end
```

!!! info
    Note that GoReleaser does not generate a valid homebrew-core formula.
    The generated formulas are meant to be published as
    [homebrew taps](https://docs.brew.sh/Taps.html), and in their current
    form will not be accepted in any of the official homebrew repositories.

## Head Formulas

GoReleaser does not generate `head` formulas for you, as it may be very different
from one software to another.

Our suggestion is to create a `my-app-head.rb` file on your tap following
[homebrew's documentation](https://docs.brew.sh/Formula-Cookbook#unstable-versions-head).
