www/docs/pro.md, before:

# GoReleaser Pro

GoReleaser Pro is now available with some unique features such as:

- [x] Import pre-built binaries with the [`prebuilt` builder](/customization/build/#import-pre-built-binaries);
- [x] Rootless build [Docker images](/customization/docker/#podman) and [manifests](/customization/docker_manifest/#podman) with [Podman](https://podman.io);
- [x] Easily create `apt` and `yum` repositories with the [fury.io integration](/customization/fury/);
- [x] Reuse configuration files with the [include keyword](/customization/includes/);
- [x] Run commands after the release with [global after hooks](/customization/hooks/);
- [x] Use GoReleaser within your [monorepo](/customization/monorepo/);
- [x] Create [custom template variables](/customization/templates/#custom-variables) (goes well with [includes](/customization/includes/)).

<script src="https://gumroad.com/js/gumroad.js"></script>
<a class="gumroad-button" href="https://gumroad.com/l/CadfZ" target="_blank">Get GoReleaser Pro</a>

_or go to [https://gum.co/goreleaser](https://gum.co/goreleaser)_

## Roadmap

The roadmap is not public (yet), but we do have a couple of ideas and your input is always welcome!
Once you buy it, feel free to [email me](mailto:carlos@becker.software?subject=GoReleaser%20Feature%20Suggestion) with your suggestions.

## Pricing & Sponsors

- The current pricing is "low" and is likely to increase as we keep adding more pro-only features;
- If you sponsor either the project or its developers, you [can ask for a discount](mailto:carlos@becker.software?subject=GoReleaser%20Coupon%20Request)!

## Enterprise support

I don't have a plan for that yet, but please [email me](mailto:carlos@becker.software?subject=GoReleaser%20Enterprise%20Support) if you are interested.

## Using GoReleaser Pro

When you buy it on [gumroad](https://gum.co/goreleaser), you'll get a license key.

You can then pass it to the `release` command either via the `--key` flag or the `GORELEASER_KEY` environment variable.

---

**✨✨ Thanks for your support! ✨✨**

Commit message:

docs: improve several documentation pages
Signed-off-by: Carlos Alexandro Becker <caarlos0@gmail.com>

www/docs/pro.md, after:

# GoReleaser Pro

GoReleaser Pro is a paid, closed-source GoReleaser distribution with some additional features:

- [x] Import pre-built binaries with the [`prebuilt` builder](/customization/build/#import-pre-built-binaries);
- [x] Rootless build [Docker images](/customization/docker/#podman) and [manifests](/customization/docker_manifest/#podman) with [Podman](https://podman.io);
- [x] Easily create `apt` and `yum` repositories with the [fury.io integration](/customization/fury/);
- [x] Reuse configuration files with the [include keyword](/customization/includes/);
- [x] Run commands after the release with [global after hooks](/customization/hooks/);
- [x] Use GoReleaser within your [monorepo](/customization/monorepo/);
- [x] Create [custom template variables](/customization/templates/#custom-variables) (goes well with [includes](/customization/includes/)).

<script src="https://gumroad.com/js/gumroad.js"></script>
<a class="gumroad-button" href="https://gumroad.com/l/CadfZ" target="_blank">Get GoReleaser Pro</a>

## Roadmap

The roadmap is not public (yet), but we do have a couple of ideas and your input is always welcome!
Once you buy it, feel free to [email me](mailto:carlos@becker.software?subject=GoReleaser%20Feature%20Suggestion) with your suggestions.

## Pricing & Sponsors

- The current pricing is low and is likely to increase as we keep adding more pro-only features;
- If you sponsor either the project or any of its developers, you [can ask for a discount](mailto:carlos@becker.software?subject=GoReleaser%20Coupon%20Request)!

## Enterprise support

I don't have a plan for that yet, but please [email me](mailto:carlos@becker.software?subject=GoReleaser%20Enterprise%20Support) if you are interested.

## Using GoReleaser Pro

Once you [buy it](https://gum.co/goreleaser), you'll get a license key.
You can then pass it to the [`release` command](/cmd/goreleaser_release/) either via the `--key` flag or the `GORELEASER_KEY` environment variable.

If you use the GitHub action, you will want to set the `distribution` option to `goreleaser-pro`.
Check the [documentation](/ci/actions/) for more details.

---

**✨✨ Thanks for your support! ✨✨**
