www/docs/tutorials.md, before:

---
title: Tutorials and posts
---

Tutorials made by the community.

<!-- please, keep A-Z sorting -->
- [Creating debs and rpms with Go](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/nfpm/)
- [Fast and easy Go binaries delivery](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/goreleaser/)
- [GoReleaser Docker Support](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/goreleaser-docker/)
- [GoReleaser: build and push Snapcraft packages from TravisCI](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/goreleaser-snap-travis/)
- [Painless Github releases with Drone and GoReleaser](https://medium.com/@stepanvrany/painless-github-releases-with-drone-and-goreleaser-853bbbccd0c0)
- [Shipping Rust Binaries with GoReleaser](https://medium.com/@jondot/shipping-rust-binaries-with-goreleaser-d5aa42a46be0)
- [Cross compile with CGO and GoReleaser](https://medium.com/@robdefeo/cross-compile-with-cgo-and-goreleaser-6af884731222?source=friends_link&sk=baf6553fa48cb0e28ea3519615f02576)
- [GoReleaser + Drone + Github: Tutorial](https://medium.com/@fallion/goreleaser-drone-github-tutorial-9a150103cac0)
- [Go Release Automation with goreleaser + GitHub Actions](https://blog.toshima.ru/2019/10/20/go-release-automation-with-goreleaser.html)
- [GitHub Action for release your Go projects as fast and easily as possible](https://dev.to/koddr/github-action-for-release-your-go-projects-as-fast-and-easily-as-possible-20a2)

Want to add your tutorial here? Please do! Click on the `improve this page`
link bellow!

Commit message:

docs: add multi-plat docker images to tutorials
Signed-off-by: Carlos Alexandro Becker <caarlos0@gmail.com>

www/docs/tutorials.md, after:

---
title: Tutorials and posts
---

Tutorials made by the community.

<!-- please, keep A-Z sorting -->
- [Creating debs and rpms with Go](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/nfpm/)
- [Cross compile with CGO and GoReleaser](https://medium.com/@robdefeo/cross-compile-with-cgo-and-goreleaser-6af884731222?source=friends_link&sk=baf6553fa48cb0e28ea3519615f02576)
- [Fast and easy Go binaries delivery](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/goreleaser/)
- [GitHub Action for release your Go projects as fast and easily as possible](https://dev.to/koddr/github-action-for-release-your-go-projects-as-fast-and-easily-as-possible-20a2)
- [Go Release Automation with goreleaser + GitHub Actions](https://blog.toshima.ru/2019/10/20/go-release-automation-with-goreleaser.html)
- [GoReleaser + Drone + Github: Tutorial](https://medium.com/@fallion/goreleaser-drone-github-tutorial-9a150103cac0)
- [GoReleaser Docker Support](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/goreleaser-docker/)
- [GoReleaser: build and push Snapcraft packages from TravisCI](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/goreleaser-snap-travis/)
- [Multi-platform Docker images with GoReleaser and GitHub Actions](https://carlosbecker.com/posts/multi-platform-docker-images-goreleaser-gh-actions/)
- [Painless Github releases with Drone and GoReleaser](https://medium.com/@stepanvrany/painless-github-releases-with-drone-and-goreleaser-853bbbccd0c0)
- [Shipping Rust Binaries with GoReleaser](https://medium.com/@jondot/shipping-rust-binaries-with-goreleaser-d5aa42a46be0)

!!! tip
    Click on the "Edit" button to add your page here.
