www/content/artifactory.md, before:

---
title: Artifactory
series: customization
hideFromIndex: true
weight: 120
---

Since [v0.38.0](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser/releases/tag/v0.38.0),
GoReleaser supports building and pushing artifacts into Artifactory.

## How it works

You can declare multiple Artifactory instances.
All binaries generated by your `builds` section will be pushed to
each configured Artifactory.

If you have only one Artifactory instance,
the configuration is as easy as adding the
upload target and a username to your `.goreleaser.yml` file:

```yaml
artifactories:
  - name: production
    target: http://<Your-Instance>:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    username: goreleaser
```

Prerequisites:

- A running Artifactory instances
- A user + password / API key with grants to upload an artifact

### Target

The `target` is the URL to upload the artifacts to (_without_ the name of the artifact).

An example configuration for `goreleaser` in upload mode `binary` with the target can look like

```yaml
- mode: binary
  target: 'http://artifacts.company.com:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/{{ .Os }}/{{ .Arch }}{{ if .Arm }}{{ .Arm }}{{ end }}'
```

and will result in a final deployment like `http://artifacts.company.com:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/goreleaser/1.0.0/Darwin/x86_64/goreleaser`.

Supported variables:

- Version
- Tag
- ProjectName
- Os
- Arch
- Arm

_Attention_: Variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ are only supported in upload
mode `binary`.

### Password / API Key

Your configured username needs to be authenticated against your Artifactory.

The password or API key will be stored in a environment variable.
The configured name of your Artifactory instance will be used.
With this way we support auth for multiple instances.
This also means that the `name` per configured instance needs to be unique
per goreleaser configuration.

The name of the environment variable will be `ARTIFACTORY_NAME_SECRET`.
If your instance is named `production`, you need to store the secret in the
environment variable `ARTIFACTORY_PRODUCTION_SECRET`.
The name will be transformed to uppercase.

## Customization

Of course, you can customize a lot of things:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
artifactories:
  # You can have multiple Artifactory instances.
  -
    # Unique name of your artifactory instance. Used to identify the instance
    name: production
    # Upload mode. Valid options are `binary` and `archive`.
    # If mode is `archive`, variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ for target name are not supported.
    # In that case these variables are empty.
    # Default is `archive`.
    mode: archive
    # URL of your Artifactory instance + path to deploy to
    target: http://artifacts.company.com:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    # User that will be used for the deployment
    username: deployuser
    # Upload checksums (defaults to false)
    checksum: true
    # Upload signatures (defaults to false)
    signature: true
```

These settings should allow you to push your artifacts into multiple Artifactories.

Commit message:

feat: Allow to get http username from env (#777)

www/content/artifactory.md, after:

---
title: Artifactory
series: customization
hideFromIndex: true
weight: 120
---

Since [v0.38.0](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser/releases/tag/v0.38.0),
GoReleaser supports building and pushing artifacts into Artifactory.

## How it works

You can declare multiple Artifactory instances.
All binaries generated by your `builds` section will be pushed to
each configured Artifactory.

If you have only one Artifactory instance,
the configuration is as easy as adding the
upload target and a username to your `.goreleaser.yml` file:

```yaml
artifactories:
  - name: production
    target: http://<Your-Instance>:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    username: goreleaser
```

Prerequisites:

- A running Artifactory instances
- A user + password / API key with grants to upload an artifact

### Target

The `target` is the URL to upload the artifacts to (_without_ the name of the artifact).

An example configuration for `goreleaser` in upload mode `binary` with the target can look like

```yaml
- mode: binary
  target: 'http://artifacts.company.com:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/{{ .Os }}/{{ .Arch }}{{ if .Arm }}{{ .Arm }}{{ end }}'
```

and will result in a final deployment like `http://artifacts.company.com:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/goreleaser/1.0.0/Darwin/x86_64/goreleaser`.

Supported variables:

- Version
- Tag
- ProjectName
- Os
- Arch
- Arm

_Attention_: Variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ are only supported in upload
mode `binary`.

### Username

Your configured username needs to be authenticated against your Artifactory.

You can have the username set in the configuration file as shown above
or you can have it read from an environment variable.
The configured name of your Artifactory instance will be used to build
the environment variable name.
This way we support auth for multiple instances.
This also means that the `name` per configured instance needs to be unique
per goreleaser configuration.

The name of the environment variable will be `ARTIFACTORY_NAME_USERNAME`.
If your instance is named `production`, you can store the username in the
environment variable `ARTIFACTORY_PRODUCTION_USERNAME`.
The name will be transformed to uppercase.

If a configured username is found in the configuration file, then the
environment variable is not used at all.

### Password / API Key

The password or API key will be stored in a environment variable.
The configured name of your Artifactory instance will be used.
With this way we support auth for multiple instances.
This also means that the `name` per configured instance needs to be unique
per goreleaser configuration.

The name of the environment variable will be `ARTIFACTORY_NAME_SECRET`.
If your instance is named `production`, you need to store the secret in the
environment variable `ARTIFACTORY_PRODUCTION_SECRET`.
The name will be transformed to uppercase.

## Customization

Of course, you can customize a lot of things:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
artifactories:
  # You can have multiple Artifactory instances.
  -
    # Unique name of your artifactory instance. Used to identify the instance
    name: production
    # Upload mode. Valid options are `binary` and `archive`.
    # If mode is `archive`, variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ for target name are not supported.
    # In that case these variables are empty.
    # Default is `archive`.
    mode: archive
    # URL of your Artifactory instance + path to deploy to
    target: http://artifacts.company.com:8081/artifactory/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    # User that will be used for the deployment
    username: deployuser
    # Upload checksums (defaults to false)
    checksum: true
    # Upload signatures (defaults to false)
    signature: true
```

These settings should allow you to push your artifacts into multiple Artifactories.
