www/content/ci.md, before:

---
title: Continuous Integration
menu: true
weight: 140
---

GoReleaser was built from the very first commit with the idea of
running it as part of the CI pipeline in mind.

Let's see how we can get it working on popular CI softwares.

## Travis

You may want to setup your project to auto-deploy your new tags on
[Travis](https://travis-ci.org), for example:

```yaml
# .travis.yml
language: go

addons:
  apt:
    packages:
    # needed for the nfpm pipe:
    - rpm
    # needed for the snap pipe:
    - snapcraft

env:
# needed for the snap pipe:
- PATH=/snap/bin:$PATH

install:
# needed for the snap pipe:
- sudo snap install snapcraft --classic

# needed for the docker pipe
services:
- docker

# calls goreleaser
deploy:
- provider: script
  skip_cleanup: true
  script: curl -sL https://git.io/goreleaser | bash
  on:
    tags: true
    condition: $TRAVIS_OS_NAME = linux
```

Note the last line (`condition: $TRAVIS_OS_NAME = linux`): it is important
if you run a build matrix with multiple Go versions and/or multiple OSes. If
that's the case you will want to make sure GoReleaser is run just once.

# Circle

Here is how to do it with [CircleCI](https://circleci.com):

```yml
# circle.yml
deployment:
  tag:
    tag: /v[0-9]+(\.[0-9]+)*(-.*)*/
    owner: user
    commands:
      - curl -sL https://git.io/goreleaser | bash
```

Commit message:

docs: improve docker docs
closes #694

www/content/ci.md, after:

---
title: Continuous Integration
menu: true
weight: 140
---

GoReleaser was built from the very first commit with the idea of
running it as part of the CI pipeline in mind.

Let's see how we can get it working on popular CI softwares.

## Travis

You may want to setup your project to auto-deploy your new tags on
[Travis](https://travis-ci.org), for example:

```yaml
# .travis.yml
language: go

addons:
  apt:
    packages:
    # needed for the nfpm pipe:
    - rpm
    # needed for the snap pipe:
    - snapcraft

env:
# needed for the snap pipe:
- PATH=/snap/bin:$PATH

install:
# needed for the snap pipe:
- sudo snap install snapcraft --classic

# needed for the docker pipe
services:
- docker

after_success:
# docker login is required if you want to push docker images.
# DOCKER_PASSWORD should be a secret in your .travis.yml configuration.
- test -n "$TRAVIS_TAG" && docker login -u=myuser -p="$DOCKER_PASSWORD"

# calls goreleaser
deploy:
- provider: script
  skip_cleanup: true
  script: curl -sL https://git.io/goreleaser | bash
  on:
    tags: true
    condition: $TRAVIS_OS_NAME = linux
```

Note the last line (`condition: $TRAVIS_OS_NAME = linux`): it is important
if you run a build matrix with multiple Go versions and/or multiple OSes. If
that's the case you will want to make sure GoReleaser is run just once.

# Circle

Here is how to do it with [CircleCI](https://circleci.com):

```yml
# circle.yml
deployment:
  tag:
    tag: /v[0-9]+(\.[0-9]+)*(-.*)*/
    owner: user
    commands:
      - curl -sL https://git.io/goreleaser | bash
```
