www/content/homebrew.md, before:

---
title: Homebrew
series: customization
hideFromIndex: true
weight: 90
---

After releasing to GitHub or GitLab, GoReleaser can generate and publish a _homebrew-tap_
recipe into a repository that you have access to.

The `brew` section specifies how the formula should be created.
You can check the
[Homebrew documentation](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/How-to-Create-and-Maintain-a-Tap.md)
and the
[formula cookbook](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/Formula-Cookbook.md)
for more details.

```yml
# .goreleaser.yml
brews:
  -
    # Name template of the recipe
    # Default to project name
    name: myproject

    # IDs of the archives to use.
    # Defaults to all.
    ids:
    - foo
    - bar


    # NOTE: make sure the url_template, the token and given repo (github or gitlab) owner and name are from the
    # same kind. We will probably unify this in the next major version like it is done with scoop.

    # Github repository to push the tap to.
    github:
      owner: github-user
      name: homebrew-tap

    # OR Gitlab
    # gitlab:
    #   owner: gitlab-user
    #   name: homebrew-tap

    # Gitea is not supported yet, but the support coming

    # Template for the url which is determined by the given Token (github or gitlab)
    # Default for github is "https://github.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/releases/download/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    # Default for gitlab is "https://gitlab.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/uploads/{{ .ArtifactUploadHash }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    url_template: "http://github.mycompany.com/foo/bar/releases/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"

    # Allows you to set a custom download strategy. Note that you'll need
    # to implement the strategy and add it to your tap repository.
    # Example: http://lessthanhero.io/post/homebrew-with-private-repo-releases/
    # Default is empty.
    download_strategy: GitHubPrivateRepositoryReleaseDownloadStrategy

    # Allows you to add a custom require_relative at the top of the formula template
    # Default is empty
    custom_require: custom_download_strategy

    # Git author used to commit to the repository.
    # Defaults are shown.
    commit_author:
      name: goreleaserbot
      email: goreleaser@carlosbecker.com

    # Folder inside the repository to put the formula.
    # Default is the root folder.
    folder: Formula

    # Caveats for the user of your binary.
    # Default is empty.
    caveats: "How to use this binary"

    # Your app's homepage.
    # Default is empty.
    homepage: "https://example.com/"

    # Your app's description.
    # Default is empty.
    description: "Software to create fast and easy drum rolls."

    # Setting this will prevent goreleaser to actually try to commit the updated
    # formula - instead, the formula file will be stored on the dist folder only,
    # leaving the responsibility of publishing it to the user.
    # If set to auto, the release will not be uploaded to the homebrew tap
    # in case there is an indicator for prerelease in the tag e.g. v1.0.0-rc1
    # Default is false.
    skip_upload: true

    # Custom block for brew.
    # Can be used to specify alternate downloads for devel or head releases.
    # Default is empty.
    custom_block: |
      head "https://github.com/some/package.git"
      ...

    # Packages your package depends on.
    dependencies:
      - git
      - zsh

    # Packages that conflict with your package.
    conflicts:
      - svn
      - bash

    # Specify for packages that run as a service.
    # Default is empty.
    plist: |
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      ...

    # So you can `brew test` your formula.
    # Default is empty.
    test: |
      system "#{bin}/program --version"
      ...

    # Custom install script for brew.
    # Default is 'bin.install "program"'.
    install: |
      bin.install "program"
      ...
```

> Learn more about the [name template engine](/templates).

By defining the `brew` section, GoReleaser will take care of publishing the
Homebrew tap.
Assuming that the current tag is `v1.2.3`, the above configuration will generate a
`program.rb` formula in the `Formula` folder of `user/homebrew-tap` repository:

```rb
class Program < Formula
  desc "How to use this binary"
  homepage "https://github.com/user/repo"
  version "v1.2.3"

  if os.Mac?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_macOs_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "9ee30fc358fae8d248a2d7538957089885da321dca3f09e3296fe2058e7fff74"
  elsif os.Linux?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "b41bebd25fd7bb1a67dc2cd5ee12c9f67073094567fdf7b3871f05fd74a45fdd"
  end

  depends_on "git"
  depends_on "zsh"

  def install
    bin.install "program"
  end
end
```

**Important**: Note that GoReleaser does not generate a valid
homebrew-core formula. The generated formulas are meant to be published as
[homebrew taps](https://docs.brew.sh/Taps.html), and in their current
form will not be accepted in any of the official homebrew repositories.

Commit message:

fix: brew multiple archives on one tap (#1153)
* fix: tmp simplify

* refactor: brew tests for mutiple archives per os

* feat: adds keep latest goarm version and uses it for brew

* chore: adapts golden brew test file for arm version

* test: brew for multiple arm versions

* refactor(test): brew for multiple arms

* docs: updates homebrew

* Revert "fix: tmp simplify"

This reverts commit 946a2fa1b1168fec5c4612fc0f48d94082164f9e.

* feat: adds goarm version to brew

* fix: filter chain for one goarm version

* chore: removes unused keep latest arm version filter

* refactor: brew tests

* fix: removes test for keep latest arm version

* docs: updates homebrew for goarm property

* chore: updaes err msg for brew multiple archives same os

www/content/homebrew.md, after:

---
title: Homebrew
series: customization
hideFromIndex: true
weight: 90
---

After releasing to GitHub or GitLab, GoReleaser can generate and publish a _homebrew-tap_
recipe into a repository that you have access to.

The `brew` section specifies how the formula should be created.
You can check the
[Homebrew documentation](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/How-to-Create-and-Maintain-a-Tap.md)
and the
[formula cookbook](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/blob/master/docs/Formula-Cookbook.md)
for more details.

**Note**: If you have multiple arm 32-bit versions in each `build` section, and
you do not specify any `ids` in the brew section (default to all artifacts), then goreleaser will fail.

```yml
# .goreleaser.yml
brews:
  -
    # Name template of the recipe
    # Default to project name
    name: myproject

    # IDs of the archives to use.
    # Defaults to all.
    ids:
    - foo
    - bar

    # GOARM to specify which 32-bit arm version to use if there are multiple versions
    # from the build section. Brew formulas support atm only one 32-bit version.
    # Default is 6 for all artifacts or each id if there a multiple versions.
    goarm: 6


    # NOTE: make sure the url_template, the token and given repo (github or gitlab) owner and name are from the
    # same kind. We will probably unify this in the next major version like it is done with scoop.

    # Github repository to push the tap to.
    github:
      owner: github-user
      name: homebrew-tap

    # OR Gitlab
    # gitlab:
    #   owner: gitlab-user
    #   name: homebrew-tap

    # Gitea is not supported yet, but the support coming

    # Template for the url which is determined by the given Token (github or gitlab)
    # Default for github is "https://github.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/releases/download/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    # Default for gitlab is "https://gitlab.com/<repo_owner>/<repo_name>/uploads/{{ .ArtifactUploadHash }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"
    url_template: "http://github.mycompany.com/foo/bar/releases/{{ .Tag }}/{{ .ArtifactName }}"

    # Allows you to set a custom download strategy. Note that you'll need
    # to implement the strategy and add it to your tap repository.
    # Example: http://lessthanhero.io/post/homebrew-with-private-repo-releases/
    # Default is empty.
    download_strategy: GitHubPrivateRepositoryReleaseDownloadStrategy

    # Allows you to add a custom require_relative at the top of the formula template
    # Default is empty
    custom_require: custom_download_strategy

    # Git author used to commit to the repository.
    # Defaults are shown.
    commit_author:
      name: goreleaserbot
      email: goreleaser@carlosbecker.com

    # Folder inside the repository to put the formula.
    # Default is the root folder.
    folder: Formula

    # Caveats for the user of your binary.
    # Default is empty.
    caveats: "How to use this binary"

    # Your app's homepage.
    # Default is empty.
    homepage: "https://example.com/"

    # Your app's description.
    # Default is empty.
    description: "Software to create fast and easy drum rolls."

    # Setting this will prevent goreleaser to actually try to commit the updated
    # formula - instead, the formula file will be stored on the dist folder only,
    # leaving the responsibility of publishing it to the user.
    # If set to auto, the release will not be uploaded to the homebrew tap
    # in case there is an indicator for prerelease in the tag e.g. v1.0.0-rc1
    # Default is false.
    skip_upload: true

    # Custom block for brew.
    # Can be used to specify alternate downloads for devel or head releases.
    # Default is empty.
    custom_block: |
      head "https://github.com/some/package.git"
      ...

    # Packages your package depends on.
    dependencies:
      - git
      - zsh

    # Packages that conflict with your package.
    conflicts:
      - svn
      - bash

    # Specify for packages that run as a service.
    # Default is empty.
    plist: |
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      ...

    # So you can `brew test` your formula.
    # Default is empty.
    test: |
      system "#{bin}/program --version"
      ...

    # Custom install script for brew.
    # Default is 'bin.install "program"'.
    install: |
      bin.install "program"
      ...
```

> Learn more about the [name template engine](/templates).

By defining the `brew` section, GoReleaser will take care of publishing the
Homebrew tap.
Assuming that the current tag is `v1.2.3`, the above configuration will generate a
`program.rb` formula in the `Formula` folder of `user/homebrew-tap` repository:

```rb
class Program < Formula
  desc "How to use this binary"
  homepage "https://github.com/user/repo"
  version "v1.2.3"

  if os.Mac?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_macOs_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "9ee30fc358fae8d248a2d7538957089885da321dca3f09e3296fe2058e7fff74"
  elsif os.Linux?
    url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_64bit.zip"
    sha256 "b41bebd25fd7bb1a67dc2cd5ee12c9f67073094567fdf7b3871f05fd74a45fdd"
    if Hardware::CPU.arm?
      if Hardware::CPU.is_64_bit?
        url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_arm64.zip"
            sha256 "97cadca3c3c3f36388a4a601acf878dd356d6275a976bee516798b72bfdbeecf"
      else
        url "https://github.com/user/repo/releases/download/v1.2.3/program_v1.2.3_Linux_armv7.zip"
        sha256 "78f31239430eaaec01df783e2a3443753a8126c325292ed8ddb1658ddd2b401d"
      end
    end
  end

  depends_on "git"
  depends_on "zsh"

  def install
    bin.install "program"
  end
end
```

**Important**: Note that GoReleaser does not generate a valid
homebrew-core formula. The generated formulas are meant to be published as
[homebrew taps](https://docs.brew.sh/Taps.html), and in their current
form will not be accepted in any of the official homebrew repositories.
