www/content/put.md, before:

---
title: HTTP Put
series: customization
hideFromIndex: true
weight: 120
---

Since [vX.Y.Z](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser/releases/tag/vX.Y.Z),
GoReleaser supports building and pushing artifacts to HTTP servers using simple HTTP PUT requests.

## How it works

You can declare multiple Put instances.
All binaries generated by your `builds` section will be pushed to each configured Put.

If you have only one Put instance, the configuration is as easy as adding the
upload target and a username to your `.goreleaser.yml` file:

```yaml
puts:
  - name: production
    target: http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    username: goreleaser
```

Prerequisites:

- An HTTP server accepting PUT requests
- A user + password with grants to upload an artifact using PUT requests (if the server requires it)

### Target

The `target` is the URL to upload the artifacts to (_without_ the name of the artifact).

An example configuration for `goreleaser` in upload mode `binary` with the target can look like

```yaml
- mode: binary
  target: 'http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/{{ .Os }}/{{ .Arch }}{{ if .Arm }}{{ .Arm }}{{ end }}'
```

and will result in an HTTP PUT request sent to `http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/goreleaser/1.0.0/Darwin/x86_64/goreleaser`.

Supported variables:

- Version
- Tag
- ProjectName
- Os
- Arch
- Arm

_Attention_: Variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ are only supported in upload mode `binary`.

### Password

Your configured username needs to be valid against your HTTP server.

The password will be stored in a environment variable.
The configured name of your HTTP server will be used.
This way we support auth for multiple instances.
This also means that the `name` per configured instance needs to be unique
per goreleaser configuration.

The name of the environment variable will be `PUT_<NAME>_SECRET`.
If your instance is named `production`, you need to store the secret in the
environment variable `PUT_PRODUCTION_SECRET`.
The name will be transformed to uppercase.

## Customization

Of course, you can customize a lot of things:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
puts:
  # You can have multiple Put instances.
  -
    # Unique name of your Put instance. Used to identify the instance.
    name: production
    # Upload mode. Valid options are `binary` and `archive`.
    # If mode is `archive`, variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ for target name are not supported.
    # In that case these variables are empty.
    # Default is `archive`.
    mode: archive
    # URL to be used as target of the HTTP PUT request
    target: http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    # User that will be used for the deployment
    username: deployuser
    # Upload checksums (defaults to false)
    checksum: true
    # Upload signatures (defaults to false)
    signature: true
```

These settings should allow you to push your artifacts into multiple HTTP servers.

Commit message:

feat: Allow to get http username from env (#777)

www/content/put.md, after:

---
title: HTTP Put
series: customization
hideFromIndex: true
weight: 120
---

Since [vX.Y.Z](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser/releases/tag/vX.Y.Z),
GoReleaser supports building and pushing artifacts to HTTP servers using simple HTTP PUT requests.

## How it works

You can declare multiple Put instances.
All binaries generated by your `builds` section will be pushed to each configured Put.

If you have only one Put instance, the configuration is as easy as adding the
upload target and a username to your `.goreleaser.yml` file:

```yaml
puts:
  - name: production
    target: http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    username: goreleaser
```

Prerequisites:

- An HTTP server accepting PUT requests
- A user + password with grants to upload an artifact using PUT requests (if the server requires it)

### Target

The `target` is the URL to upload the artifacts to (_without_ the name of the artifact).

An example configuration for `goreleaser` in upload mode `binary` with the target can look like

```yaml
- mode: binary
  target: 'http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/{{ .Os }}/{{ .Arch }}{{ if .Arm }}{{ .Arm }}{{ end }}'
```

and will result in an HTTP PUT request sent to `http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/goreleaser/1.0.0/Darwin/x86_64/goreleaser`.

Supported variables:

- Version
- Tag
- ProjectName
- Os
- Arch
- Arm

_Attention_: Variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ are only supported in upload mode `binary`.

### Username

Your configured username needs to be valid against your HTTP server.

You can have the username set in the configuration file as shown above
or you can have it read from and environment variable.
The configured name of your HTTP server will be used to build the environment
variable name.
This way we support auth for multiple instances.
This also means that the `name` per configured instance needs to be unique
per goreleaser configuration.

The name of the environment variable will be `PUT_NAME_USERNAME`.
If your instance is named `production`, you can store the username in the
environment variable `PUT_PRODUCTION_USERNAME`.
The name will be transformed to uppercase.

If a configured username is found in the configuration file, then the
environment variable is not used at all.

### Password

The password will be stored in a environment variable.
The configured name of your HTTP server will be used.
This way we support auth for multiple instances.
This also means that the `name` per configured instance needs to be unique
per goreleaser configuration.

The name of the environment variable will be `PUT_NAME_SECRET`.
If your instance is named `production`, you need to store the secret in the
environment variable `PUT_PRODUCTION_SECRET`.
The name will be transformed to uppercase.

## Customization

Of course, you can customize a lot of things:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
puts:
  # You can have multiple Put instances.
  -
    # Unique name of your Put instance. Used to identify the instance.
    name: production
    # Upload mode. Valid options are `binary` and `archive`.
    # If mode is `archive`, variables _Os_, _Arch_ and _Arm_ for target name are not supported.
    # In that case these variables are empty.
    # Default is `archive`.
    mode: archive
    # URL to be used as target of the HTTP PUT request
    target: http://some.server/some/path/example-repo-local/{{ .ProjectName }}/{{ .Version }}/
    # User that will be used for the deployment
    username: deployuser
    # Upload checksums (defaults to false)
    checksum: true
    # Upload signatures (defaults to false)
    signature: true
```

These settings should allow you to push your artifacts into multiple HTTP servers.
