docs/110-snapcraft.md, before:

---
title: Snapcraft
---

GoReleaser can generate `snap` packages. [Snaps](http://snapcraft.io/) are a
new packaging format, that will let you publish your project directly to the
Ubuntu store. From there it will be installable in all the
[supported Linux distros](https://snapcraft.io/docs/core/install), with
automatic and transactional updates.

You can read more about it in the [snapcraft docs](https://snapcraft.io/docs/).

```yml
# .goreleaser.yml
snapcraft:

  # The name of the snap. This is optional.
  # Default is project name.
  name: drumroll

  # Single-line elevator pitch for your amazing snap.
  # 79 char long at most.
  summary: Software to create fast and easy drum rolls.

  # This the description of your snap. You have a paragraph or two to tell the
  # most important story about your snap. Keep it under 100 words though,
  # we live in tweetspace and your description wants to look good in the snap
  # store.
  description: |
    This is the best drum roll application out there.
    Install it and awe!

  # A guardrail to prevent you from releasing a snap to all your users before
  # it is ready.
  # `devel` will let you release only to the `edge` and `beta` channels in the
  # store. `stable` will let you release also to the `candidate` and `stable`
  # channels. More info about channels here:
  # https://snapcraft.io/docs/reference/channels
  grade: stable

  # Snaps can be setup to follow three different confinement policies:
  # `strict`, `devmode` and `classic`. A strict confinement where the snap
  # can only read and write in its own namespace is recommended. Extra
  # permissions for strict snaps can be declared as `plugs` for the app, which
  # are explained later. More info about confinement here:
  # https://snapcraft.io/docs/reference/confinement
  confinement: strict

  # Each binary built by GoReleaser is an app inside the snap. In this section
  # you can declare extra details for those binaries. It is optional.
  apps:

    # The name of the app must be the same name as the binary built.
    drumroll:

      # If your app requires extra permissions to work outside of its default
      # confined space, declare them here.
      # You can read the documentation about the available plugs and the
      # things they allow:
      # https://snapcraft.io/docs/reference/interfaces).
      plugs: ["home", "network"]

      # If you want your app to be autostarted and to always run in the
      # background, you can make it a simple daemon.
      daemon: simple
```

Note that GoReleaser will not install `snapcraft` nor any of its dependencies
for you.

Commit message:

feat: name template on snapcraft packages
closes #470

docs/110-snapcraft.md, after:

---
title: Snapcraft
---

GoReleaser can generate `snap` packages. [Snaps](http://snapcraft.io/) are a
new packaging format, that will let you publish your project directly to the
Ubuntu store. From there it will be installable in all the
[supported Linux distros](https://snapcraft.io/docs/core/install), with
automatic and transactional updates.

You can read more about it in the [snapcraft docs](https://snapcraft.io/docs/).

```yml
# .goreleaser.yml
snapcraft:
  # You can change the name of the package.
  # This is parsed with the Go template engine and the following variables
  # are available:
  # - ProjectName
  # - Tag
  # - Version (Git tag without `v` prefix)
  # - Os
  # - Arch
  # - Arm (ARM version)
  # - Env (environment variables)
  # Default: `{{ .ProjectName }}_{{ .Version }}_{{ .Os }}_{{ .Arch }}{{ if .Arm }}v{{ .Arm }}{{ end }}`
  name_template: "{{ .ProjectName }}_{{ .Version }}_{{ .Os }}_{{ .Arch }}"

  # Replacements for GOOS and GOARCH in the package name.
  # Keys should be valid GOOSs or GOARCHs.
  # Values are the respective replacements.
  # Default is empty.
  replacements:
    amd64: 64-bit
    386: 32-bit
    darwin: macOS
    linux: Tux

  # The name of the snap. This is optional.
  # Default is project name.
  name: drumroll

  # Single-line elevator pitch for your amazing snap.
  # 79 char long at most.
  summary: Software to create fast and easy drum rolls.

  # This the description of your snap. You have a paragraph or two to tell the
  # most important story about your snap. Keep it under 100 words though,
  # we live in tweetspace and your description wants to look good in the snap
  # store.
  description: |
    This is the best drum roll application out there.
    Install it and awe!

  # A guardrail to prevent you from releasing a snap to all your users before
  # it is ready.
  # `devel` will let you release only to the `edge` and `beta` channels in the
  # store. `stable` will let you release also to the `candidate` and `stable`
  # channels. More info about channels here:
  # https://snapcraft.io/docs/reference/channels
  grade: stable

  # Snaps can be setup to follow three different confinement policies:
  # `strict`, `devmode` and `classic`. A strict confinement where the snap
  # can only read and write in its own namespace is recommended. Extra
  # permissions for strict snaps can be declared as `plugs` for the app, which
  # are explained later. More info about confinement here:
  # https://snapcraft.io/docs/reference/confinement
  confinement: strict

  # Each binary built by GoReleaser is an app inside the snap. In this section
  # you can declare extra details for those binaries. It is optional.
  apps:

    # The name of the app must be the same name as the binary built.
    drumroll:

      # If your app requires extra permissions to work outside of its default
      # confined space, declare them here.
      # You can read the documentation about the available plugs and the
      # things they allow:
      # https://snapcraft.io/docs/reference/interfaces).
      plugs: ["home", "network"]

      # If you want your app to be autostarted and to always run in the
      # background, you can make it a simple daemon.
      daemon: simple
```

Note that GoReleaser will not install `snapcraft` nor any of its dependencies
for you.
