docs/130-docker.md, before:

---
title: Docker Support
---

Since [v0.31.0](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser/releases/tag/v0.31.0),
[GoReleaser](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser) support building and
pushing Docker images.

## How it works

You can declare multiple Docker images. They will be matched against your
the binaries generated by your `builds` section.

If you have only one `build` setup, the config is as easy as adding the
name of your image to your `.goreleaser.yml`:

```yaml
dockers:
  - image: user/repo
```

You also need to create a `Dockerfile` in your repo root folder:

```dockerfile
FROM scratch
COPY mybin /
ENTRYPOINT ["/mybin"]
```

This config will build and push a docker image named `user/repo:tagname`.

## Customization

Of course, you can customize a lot of things out of this:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
dockers:
  # You can have multiple Docker images
  -
    # GOOS of the built binary that should be used
    goos: linux
    # GOARCH of the built binary that should be used
    goarch: amd64
    # GOARM of the built binary that should be used
    goarm: ''
    # Name of the built binary that should be used
    binary: mybinary
    # Docker image name
    image: myuser/myimage
    # Path to the Dockerfile (from the project root)
    dockerfile: Dockerfile
    # Also tag and push myuser/myimage:latest
    latest: true
    # If your dockerfile copies more files other than the binary itself,
    # you should list them here as well.
    extra_files:
    - config.yml
```

These settings should allow you to generate multiple docker images, using
multiple `FROM` statements, for example, as well generate one image for
each binary in your project.

Commit message:

docs: Polish all docs
This shortens the titles, fixes some typos, rephrases a few paragraphs,
adds some additional information and attempts to keep vocabulary more
consistent.

docs/130-docker.md, after:

---
title: Docker
---

Since [v0.31.0](https://github.com/goreleaser/goreleaser/releases/tag/v0.31.0),
GoReleaser supports building and pushing Docker images.

## How it works

You can declare multiple Docker images. They will be matched against
the binaries generated by your `builds` section.

If you have only one `build` setup,
the configuration is as easy as adding the
name of your image to your `.goreleaser.yml` file:

```yaml
dockers:
  - image: user/repo
```

You also need to create a `Dockerfile` in your project's root folder:

```dockerfile
FROM scratch
COPY mybin /
ENTRYPOINT ["/mybin"]
```

This configuration will build and push a Docker image named `user/repo:tagname`.

## Customization

Of course, you can customize a lot of things:

```yaml
# .goreleaser.yml
dockers:
  # You can have multiple Docker images.
  -
    # GOOS of the built binary that should be used.
    goos: linux
    # GOARCH of the built binary that should be used.
    goarch: amd64
    # GOARM of the built binary that should be used.
    goarm: ''
    # Name of the built binary that should be used.
    binary: mybinary
    # Docker image name.
    image: myuser/myimage
    # Path to the Dockerfile (from the project root).
    dockerfile: Dockerfile
    # Also tag and push myuser/myimage:latest.
    latest: true
    # If your Dockerfile copies files other than the binary itself,
    # you should list them here as well.
    extra_files:
    - config.yml
```

These settings should allow you to generate multiple Docker images,
for example, using multiple `FROM` statements,
as well as generate one image for each binary in your project.
